>> Ifill: THE FRENCH GOVERNMENT
CRACKS DOWN ON HATE SPEECH AS
PARISIANS FLOCK TO NEWSSTANDS TO
BUY THE FIRST EDITION OF
"CHARLIE HEBDO" AFTER THE TERROR
ATTACKS WITH A CONTROVERSIAL
CARTOON OF THE PROPHET MOHAMMAD
ON THE COVER.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY,
SPECULATION TURNS TO ACTION, AS
THE RACE FOR THE WHITE HOUSE IN
2016 KICKS INTO GEAR.
>> Ifill: PLUS, HOW CONVICTED
SEX OFFENDERS DISCHARGED FROM
THE MILITARY FALL UNDER THE
RADAR.
DISAPPEARING INTO NEIGHBORHOODS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY AND IN SOME
CASES COMMITTING FURTHER CRIMES.
>> IT'S A DAMNATION OF THE
MILITARY JUSTICE SYSTEM.
A DAMNATION OF THE MILITARY AND
THEIR RESPONSIBILITY IN
PROTECTING CIVIL SOCIETY
BECAUSE, IN FACT, THEY ARE NOT.
>> Woodruff: AND, A CLIMB OF A
LIFETIME.
SCALING A NEAR VERTICAL GRANITE
FACE OF YOSEMITE'S DAWN WALL
USING ONLY HANDS, FEET AND A LOT
OF STRENGTH TO REACH THE TOP.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE STORIES
WE'RE COVERING ON TONIGHT'S PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: IT'S BEEN ONE WEEK
SINCE THE BLOODBATH AT A PARIS
PUBLICATION THAT TERRORIZED THE
CITY FOR THREE DAYS.
TODAY, POLICE LAUNCHED A NEW
CRACKDOWN ON THOSE SUPPORTING
EXTREMISM AND TERROR.
AS THE NEWSPAPER DEFIANTLY
PROCLAIMED ITS RETURN.
EVEN BEFORE NEWS STANDS OPENED
IN PARIS THIS MORNING, LONG
LINES FORMED TO BUY A COPY OF
THE SATIRICAL WEEKLY "CHARLIE
HEBDO."
>> ( translated ): IN MY
OPINION, IT'S A HISTORIL ISCASUE
OF THE MAGAZINE, AND IT MAY RE-
LAUNCH THE NEWSPAPER THAT WAS
DECIMATED.
>> ( translated ): "CHARLIE
HEBDO" IS THE FRENCH
"SOUTH PARK."
IT'S NOTHING AGGRESSIVE, IT'S
NOTHING ANNOYING, EVEN FOR MY
MUSLIM FRIENDS.
THEY LOVE "CHARLIE HEBDO" FOR
MOST OF THEM.
>> Ifill: THREE MILLION COPIES
QUICKLY SOLD OUT, AS PEOPLE
SNATCHED UP THE FIRST ISSUE
SINCE ISLAMIST GUNMEN KILLED 12
PEOPLE AT THE NEWSPAPER'S
OFFICES.
TODAY'S ISSUE FEATURED A NEW
CARTOON OF MOHAMMED WITH A SIGN
READING "JE SUIS CHARLIE"-- "I
AM CHARLIE."
MANY NEWS ORGANIZATION,
INCLUDING THE PBS NEWSHOUR HAVE
CHOSEN NOT TO SHOW IT.
REACTION FROM THE MUSLIM WORLD,
OFFICIAL AND OTHERWISE, WAS
EMPHATICALLY NEGATIVE.
>> ( translated ): AS AN
ORGANIZATION, WE ARE IN CONSTANT
DISCUSSIONS IN INTERNATIONAL
FORUMS TO EXPLAIN THAT FREEDOM
OF EXPRESSION IS NOT AN
INVITATION TO HATRED AND IT IS
NOT TO OFFEND THE RELIGION OF
THE OTHERS.
>> ( translated ): I AM AGAINST
PUBLISHING THE DRAWING OF ANY
PROPHET, NOT ONLY THE PROPHET
MUHAMMAD, THIS IS UNACCEPTABLE.
THEY CAN NOT ABUSE SUCH PROPHETS
WHO WERE SENT BY GOD.
>> Ifill: WHILE FRANCE
CELEBRATED FREE EXPRESSION,
OFFICIALS ALSO LAUNCHED A
CRACKDOWN ON HATE SPEECH, WITH
54 ARRESTS.
THEY INCLUDED POPULAR COMIC
DIEUDONNE M'BALA M'BALA, WHO HAS
MULTIPLE CONVICTIONS FOR RACISM
AND ANTI-SEMITISM.
AT THE SAME TIME, AS A MAKESHIFT
MEMORIAL TO THE "CHARLIE HEBDO"
VICTIMS GREW, THE LEADER OF AL
QAEDA IN YEMEN ISSUED A FORMAL
CLAIM OF RESPONSIBILITY.
>> ( translated ): WE CLARIFY
THAT THE ONE WHO CHOSE THE
TARGET, LAID THE PLAN, FINANCED
THE OPERATION AND APPOINTED ITS
AMIR, IS THE LEADERSHIP OF THE
ORGANIZATION.
WE DID IT IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE
COMMAND OF ALLAH.
>> Ifill: THE GOVERNMENT OF
FRENCH PRESIDENT FRANCOIS
HOLLANDE HAS VOWED TO BATTLE
ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS.
TODAY, HE VISITED THE AIRCRAFT
CARRIER "CHARLES DE GAULLE" AND
ANNOUNCED IT WILL SUPPORT
OPERATIONS AGAINST ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS IN IRAQ.
WE'LL EXPLORE BUDDING DEBATE IN
FRANCE OVER FREEDOM OF
EXPRESSION, AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
>> Woodruff: WORRIES ABOUT THE
WORLD ECONOMY WEIGHED ON WALL
STREET TODAY.
THE WORLD BANK CUT ITS GLOBAL
GROWTH FORECAST, AND THE PRICE
OF COPPER, A BELLWETHER
COMMODITY, DROPPED SHARPLY.
THAT SENT THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE FALLING 186
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 17,427, IT
HAD BEEN DOWN NEARLY TWICE THAT
MUCH, EARLIER; THE NASDAQ
DROPPED 22, TO CLOSE AT 4,639;
AND THE S&P 500 SLIPPED 11, TO
FINISH AT 2,011.
>> Ifill: TOP OFFICIALS IN
RUSSIA WARNED TODAY OF BUDGET
CUTS AND DOUBLE-DIGIT INFLATION,
AS THE NATION FACES ITS WORST
SLOWDOWN IN 15 YEARS.
THE FINANCE MINISTER CALLED FOR
CUTTING TEN PERCENT OF ALL
GOVERNMENT SPENDING, EXCLUDING
DEFENSE.
ONLY A FEW WEEKS BACK, RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN HAD
INSISTED STATE SPENDING WOULD
NOT BE TOUCHED.
>> Woodruff: THE U.S. HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES CHALLENGED
PRESIDENT OBAMA ON TWO FRONTS
TODAY.
MAJORITY REPUBLICANS VOTED TO
BLOCK HIS EXECUTIVE ACTIONS
PROTECTING MILLIONS OF PEOPLE
FROM DEPORTATION.
IT'S PART OF A BROADER BILL
FUNDING THE DEPARTMENT OF
HOMELAND SECURITY.
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER SAID THE
PRESIDENT'S ORDERS, IN 2012 AND
LAST YEAR, VIOLATED THE LAW.
>> ENOUGH IS ENOUGH.
BY THEIR VOTES LAST NOVEMBER,
THE PEOPLE MADE CLEAR THAT THEY
WANTED MORE ACCOUNTABILITY FROM
THIS PRESIDENT.
AND BY OUR VOTES HERE TODAY, WE
WILL HEED THEIR WILL AND WE WILL
KEEP OUR OATH TO PROTECT AND
DEFEND THE CONSTITUTION OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
>> Woodruff: IT IS UNCLEAR THE
BILL CAN GET THE 60 VOTES NEEDED
TO ADVANCE IN THE SENATE.
BUT HOUSE DEMOCRATS, INCLUDING
STEVE ISRAEL OF NEW YORK,
CHARGED REPUBLICANS ARE ONLY
INTERESTED IN SCORING POINTS
WITH SUPPORTERS.
>> WE HAVE A BILL THAT SHOULD
NOT BE CONTROVERSIAL, THAT
SHOULD FUND OUR HOMELAND
SECURITY, BUT HAS BEEN TURNED
INTO A DIVISIVE POLITICAL
STRATEGY ON IMMIGRATION.
MADAME SPEAKER, LET'S FACE IT,
THIS BILL IS NOT ABOUT HOMELAND
SECURITY.
THIS BILL IS ABOUT REPUBLICAN
POLITICAL SECURITY.
>> Woodruff: THE HOUSE ALSO
VOTED TO EASE REQUIREMENTS ON
BIG BANKS UNDER THE LANDMARK
DODD-FRANK LAW.
IT WAS ADOPTED AFTER THE 2008
FINANCIAL CRISIS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS THREATENED
TO VETO BOTH THE BANKING AND
IMMIGRATION MEASURES.
>> Ifill: THE F.B.I. ARRESTED AN
OHIO MAN TODAY ON CHARGES OF
PLOTTING TO BOMB THE U.S.
CAPITOL.
COURT DOCUMENTS SAY FEDERAL
AGENTS BEGAN WATCHING
CHRISTOPHER CORNELL AFTER HE
EXPRESSED SUPPORT FOR ISLAMIC
STATE MILITANTS AND TWEETED
ABOUT JIHAD.
HE ALLEGEDLY PLANNED TO SET OFF
PIPE BOMBS, AND THEN OPEFIREN
ON LAWMAKERS AND STAFFERS.
>> Ifill: SEARCH TEAMS NEAR
INDONESIA HAVE FOUND THE
FUSELAGE OF THE AIR-ASIA
PASSENGER JET THAT CRASHED INTO
THE JAVA SEA LAST MONTH.
PHOTOS TAKEN BY AN UNDERWATER
ROBOT SHOWED THE MAIN SECTION OF
THE PLANE TODAY, LYING ON THE
SEA FLOOR WITH PART OF ONE WING
STILL ATTACHED.
OFFICIALS BELIEVE MANY OF THE
VICTIMS ARE STILL ENTOMBED IN
THE FUSELAGE.
>> Woodruff: THE INTERNATIONAL
SPACE STATION HAD A SCARE TODAY
WHEN ALARMS SIGNALED A TOXIC
AMMONIA LEAK ON THE U.S. SIDE.
NASA LATER SAID THERE WAS NO
SIGN OF AN ACTUAL LEAK.
THE CREW-- TWO AMERICANS, THREE
RUSSIANS AND ONE ITALIAN-- MOVED
INTO THE RUSSIAN SIDE FOR MOST
OF THE DAY.
>> Ifill: SECRETARY OF STATE
JOHN KERRY AND IRAN'S FOREIGN
MINISTER ARE MAKING A NEW BID
FOR PROGRESS ON CURBING IRAN'S
NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
KERRY MET WITH MOHAMMAD JAVAD
ZARIF IN GENEVA, AHEAD OF
BROADER TALKS TOMORROW,
INVOLVING OTHER NATIONS.
GOING IN, ZARIF EXPRESSED HOPE,
BUT HE ALSO PUT THE ONUS ON THE
U.S. AND ITS PARTNERS.
>> ( translated ): WE HAVE
REACHED A STAGE THAT IT IS
NECESSARY FOR THE OTHER SIDE
FIVE PERMANENT SECURITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS AND GERMANY TO MAKE ITS
DECISIONS SO THAT WE COULD MOVE
FORWARD.
IN OUR OPINION, REACHING A DEAL
IS COMPLETELY POSSIBLE BUT A
POLITICAL DECISION AND WILL IS
NEEDED.
>> Ifill: ZARIF AND KERRY MET
FOR FIVE HOURS, THEN HELD A
SECOND, UNSCHEDULED SESSION LATE
AT NIGHT.
NEGOTIATORS FAILED TO MAKE AN
EARLIER DEADLINE, AND ARE NOW
TRYING TO GET A FRAMEWORK DEAL
BY MARCH FIRST.
>> Woodruff: A "WASHINGTON POST"
REPORTER IN IRAN NOW FACES TRIAL
THERE ON UNSPECIFIED CHARGES.
THE IRANIAN STATE NEWS AGENCY
REPORTED TODAY THAT JASON
REZAIAN HAS BEEN INDICTED.
HE HOLDS DUAL AMERICAN/IRANIAN
CITIZENSHIP, AND HAS BEEN HELD
SINCE JULY.
IT'S UNCLEAR WHEN THE TRIAL WILL
BEGIN.
>> Ifill: THERE WAS A GLIMMER OF
HOPE TODAY IN WEST AFRICA.
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
SAYS GUINEA, LIBERIA AND SIERRA
LEONE HAD FEWER NEW CASES LAST
WEEK THAN ANY TIME SINCE LAST
SUMMER.
AT THE SAME TIME, THE DEATH TOLL
TOPPED 8,400.
>> Woodruff: THERE'S WORD THAT
HUNDREDS OF BOAT PEOPLE SEEKING
ASYLUM IN AUSTRALIA HAVE GONE ON
HUNGER STRIKE, IN PAPUA, NEW
GUINEA.
THEY'RE BEING HELD THERE AT AN
AUSTRALIAN-RUN DETENTION CENTER
AND THEY'VE BEEN ATTACKED BY
LOCALS  WHO WANT THEM GONE.
THE REFUGEES SAY THEY'VE STOPPED
EATING IN PROTEST, AND REUTERS
REPORTS SOME EVEN SEWED THEIR
MOUTHS SHUT TO MAKE THE POINT.
>> Ifill: BACK IN THIS COUNTRY,
NEW QUESTIONS SWIRLED TODAY
ABOUT POLICE AND DEADLY FORCE.
TWO OFFICERS IN ALBUQUERQUE, NEW
MEXICO KILLED A SUSPECT
YESTERDAY, SAYING HE HAD FIRED
ON THEM FIRST.
A DAY EARLIER, TWO OTHER POLICE
WERE CHARGED WITH MURDER IN A
2014 SHOOTING.
AND IN NEW YORK, THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS REPORTED JAIL GUARDS USED
FORCE MORE OFTEN THAN EVER, LAST
YEAR.
THERE WERE NEARLY 800 MORE
INCIDENTS THAN IN 2013.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
THREW HIS WEIGHT BEHIND EFFORTS
TO EXPAND HIGH-SPEED INTERNET
ACCESS AROUND THE COUNTRY.
HE PUSHED THE FEDERAL
COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION TO
PRE-EMPT LAWS IN 19 STATES THAT
PREVENT COMMUNITIES FROM
DEVELOPING THEIR OWN BROADBAND
NETWORKS.
DURING A VISIT TO CEDER FALLS,
IOWA, A COMMUNITY THAT PROVIDES
SUCH SERVICES TO ITS RESIDENTS.
>> I BELIEVE THAT A COMMUNITY
HAS THE RIGHT TO MAKES ITS OWN
CHOICE, AND TO PROVIDE ITS OWN
BROADBAND IF IT WANTS TO.
NOBODY IS GOING TO FORCE YOU TO
DO IT, BUT IF YOU WANT TO DO IT,
IF THE COMMUNITY DECIDES THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT WE WANT TO DO TO
GIVE OURSELVES A COMPETITIVE
EDGE AND TO HELP OUR YOUNG
PEOPLE, AND OUR BUSINESSES, THEY
SHOULD BE ABLE TO DO IT.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT SAID
HIS ADMINISTRATION WILL GIVE
TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL AID TO
TOWNS AND CITIES THAT WANT TO
IMPROVE INTERNET ACCESS.
>> Ifill: THERE HAS BEEN A NEW
SHAKEUP AT THE SECRET SERVICE,
AFTER AN EMBARRASSING STRING OF
LAPSES IN PRESIDENTIAL SECURITY.
"THE WASHINGTON POST" REPORTS
FOUR SENIOR OFFICIALS ARE BEING
REMOVED AND A FIFTH HAS DECIDED
TO RETIRE.
THE AGENCY'S DIRECTOR RESIGNED
IN OCTOBER.
>> Ifill: AND THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA ANNOUNCED THE
NATION'S STRICTEST LIMITS ON A
WIDELY USED PESTICIDE.
THE CHEMICAL IS INJECTED INTO
THE SOIL BEFORE PLANTING
STRAWBERRIES, TOMATOES, AND
OTHER CROPS.
STATE OFFICIALS SAY IT ALSO
CAUSES EYE IRRITATION, COUGHING
FITS AND HEADACHES.
THE NEW RULE WILL MEAN HIGHER
PRICES ON THE AFFECTED PRODUCE.
>> Ifil STIl:LL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR, DRAWING THE LINE
BETWEEN HATE SPEECH, SATIRE AND
OPINION.
CANVASSING THE SUDDENLY CROWDED
FIELD OF PRESIDENTIAL HOPEFULS
IN 2016.
HOW CONVICTED SEX OFFENDERS IN
THE MILITARY SLIP UNNOTICED
CIVILIAN COMMUNITIES.
PROPOSED LIMITS ON METHANE
EMISSIONS WHEN DRILLING FOR
NATURAL GAS.
AND A HISTORIC CLIMB UP A NEAR
VERTICAL WALL IN YOSEMITE
NATIONAL PARK.
>> Woodruff: TODAY'S EVENTS IN
FRANCE, FROM THE ARRESTS TO THE
RUSH TO BUY THE LATEST ISSUE OF
"CHARLIE HEBDO" RAISE A NUMBER
OF QUESTIONS ABOUT THE LIMITS OF
SPEECH.
WE AT THE NEWSHOUR HAVE MADE THE
DECISION NOT TO SHOW THE CARTOON
ON THE NEW COVER OF THE
SATIRICAL MAGAZINE DEPICTING THE
PROPHET MOHAMMAD.
THE REASON: THE OFFENSE IT COULD
CAUSE PEOPLE IS GREATER THAN THE
NEWS VALUE.
WE WANT TO EXPLORE THESE
QUESTIONS OF FREEDOM OF
EXPRESSION WITH:
LONGTIME RADIO FRANCE JOURNALIST
AND CURRENT SENIOR EDITOR
BERTRAND VANNIER.
AND, DAISY KHAN, EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY
FOR MUSLIM ADVANCEMENT.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH TO THE
PROGRAM.
BERTRAND VANNIER, HOW MUCH OF A
DEBATE IS THERE UNDERWAY TODAY
IN FRANCE ABOUT WHAT HAS
HAPPENED WITH CHARLIE HEBDO,
WITH THE NEW COVER, THE DECISION
TO SHOW IT OR NOT TO SHOW IT?
>> I THINK THAT THE OPPORTUNITY
FOR DEBATE NOW, ONE ON THE
POLITICAL SIDE, NATIONAL UNITY
IS STILL WORKING.
SO THERE'S A DIFFERENT DEBATE IN
SOCIETY AND MAINLY IN THE MUSLIM
COMMUNITY.
MANY MUSLIMS IN FRANCE ARE
STARTING TO SAY, LOOK, THERE ARE
DIFFERENT STANDARDS HERE.
YOU LEAVE THE CHARLIE HEBDO
PRINT OF THE CARTOONS AND YOU
LEAVE THE MOSQUE UNPROTECTED.
THERE HAVE BEEN 54 INCIDENTS
AGAINST MOSQUES IN THE LAST
THREE DAYS.
THERE'S A DOUBLE STANDARD TO --
TOWARDS THE MUSLIM POPULATION IN
FRANCE.
WE START TO HEAR THAT KIND OF
REFLECTION.
>> Woodruff: DAISY KHAN, IS IT
A DOUBLE STANDARD, FROM YOUR
PERSPECTIVE, AS A PROMINENT
MUSLIM HERE IN THE UNITED
STATES?
>> JUDY, THE PROBLEM IS THAT
MUSLIMS WHO LIVE IN THE WEST ARE
LARGELY JUDGED BY THE LENS OF
NATIONAL SECURITY.
CERTAINLY HERE IN AMERICA, WE
ARE LARGELY DEFINED BY WHAT
HAPPENED ON 9/11, AND, SO,
WHATEVER MUSLIMS DO IS
SCRUTINIZED.
SINCE MANY MUSLIMS COMPLAIN IN
THE UNITED STATES THERE IS A
DOUBLE STANDARD FOR THEM, THAT
FREE SPEECH IS NOT -- THEY DON'T
ENJOY FREE SPEECH IF THEY
CRITICIZE THEIR GOVERNMENT, THEY
ARE SEEN AS UNPATRIOTIC.
IF THEY CRITICIZE THE POLICIES
OF ISRAEL OR EVEN QUESTION THEM,
THEY ARE CALLED ANTI-SEMITES,
AND IF THEY, YOU KNOW, CALL FOR
EXAMINING THE ROOT CAUSES OF
TERRORISM, THEY ARE SEEN AS
AIDING AND ABETTING.
SO THERE IS A SENSE THAT FREE
SPEECH IS NOT FOR MUSLIMS AND
THAT IT'S ONLY TO BE ENJOYED BY
WESTERNERS.
>> Woodruff: BERTRAND VANNIER,
HOW DO YOU AS A NEWS EDITOR SEE
IT?
DO YOU SEE A DIFFERENT SET OF
STANDARDS WHEN IT COMES TO
PORTRAYING MUHAMMAD WHEN IT
COMES TO THE MUSLIM COMMUNITY?
>> AS A PROFESSIONAL JOURNALIST,
I DON'T THINK SO.
I HOPE NOT.
BUT, YOU KNOW, I'M A JOURNALIST,
I'M NOT THE ONE TO LISTEN TO
WHAT I SAY ON THE RADIO.
SO IT'S VERY DIFFERENT,
DEPENDING ON THE SIDE YOU ARE
ON.
I CAN UNDERSTAND THAT IF I WERE
A MUSLIM TODAY IN FRANCE, WHICH
I AM NOT, I COULD FEEL THAT
THERE IS DEFINITELY A DOUBLE
STANDARD.
LOOK, THERE WAS A VOTE IN FRANCE
A FEW YEARS BACK WHICH FORBID
THE MUSLIM WOMAN TO WEAR THE
BURQA IN A PUBLIC SPACE.
THEY SAID YOU FORBID US TO WEAR
THE BURQA, BUT YOU AUTHORIZE
CHARLIE HEBDO TO PRINT THE
CARTOON.
SO THAT'S AN EXAMPLE OF THE
DOUBLE STANDARDS.
I HOPE -- I DON'T KNOW -- I HOPE
THAT AS JOURNALISTS WE ARE NOT
DOING THE SAME.
WE NEED TO FIND THE TWO TO WORK
EQUALLY.
>> Woodruff: DAISY KHAN, PICK
UP ON THAT.
IS IT SEEN AS UNFAIR BECAUSE
MUSLIMS ARE BEING, AS YOU SAID,
LUMPED IN WITH THIS NATIONAL
SECURITY DEBATE?
IS IT POSSIBLE TO SEPARATE
WHAT'S GOING ON RIGHT NOW OUT
AND SAY, WELL, THIS IS A
CONVERSATION ABOUT JOURNALISM,
ABOUT WHAT IS WRITTEN ABOUT IN
THE NEWS MEDIA, ABOUT WHAT
PICTURES ARE DRAWN?
>> I THINK THE MOST IMPORTANT
CONVERSATION WE NEED TO BE
HAVING RIGHT NOW IS ABOUT THE
RISE OF TERRORISM.
YOU KNOW, SINCE 9/11, WE'VE SEEN
AN INCREASE IN TERRORISM IN
SPITE OF ALL THE WARS WE'VE GONE
TO AND IN SPITE OF ALL THE MONEY
THAT'S BEEN SPENT BY WESTERN
NATIONS.
LOOK AT AMERICA, WE HAVE A
FOOTPRINT IN MANY, MANY MUSLIM
COUNTRIES YET THIS TERRORISM
SEEMS TO BE FLOURISHING.
WE DON'T HAVE TIME FOR A DEEP
COMMENTARY, BUT I WOULD SAY WHAT
NEEDS TO HAPPEN IS THE BEAUTIFUL
DISPLAY WE SAW IN PARIS THE
OTHER DAY WHEN EVERYBODY CAME
OUT HAND IN HAND AND BASICALLY
WE NEED TO TAKE IT TO THE NEXT
LEVEL TO SEE HOW WE COULD
COLLABORATE TOGETHER, LAW
ENFORCEMENT, MUSLIM COMMUNITIES
AND GOVERNMENT TO SEE HOW WE CAN
REALLY PUSH BACK ON TERRORISM
WHICH IS FLOURISHING EVERYWHERE.
BY THE WAY, WESTERNERS ARE NOT
THE ONLY ONES GETTING KILLED BY
THESE TERRORISTS.
MUSLIMS ARE THE BIGGEST VICTIMS
OF TERRORISM.
SO I KNOW THAT MUSLIMS IN
FRANCE, I VISITED RECENTLY, I
HEARD MANY PERSPECTIVES, THEY
ARE VERY ANXIOUS TO WORK WITH
LAW ENFORCEMENT TO PREVENT THEIR
COMMUNITIES FROM BEING HARM, NOT
ONLY BEING HARMED PHYSICALLY,
BUT REALLY IT'S HAVING A DEEP
EFFECT ON THE PSYCHE OF MUSLIMS
AND THAT'S DANGEROUS.
>> Woodruff: BERTRAND VANNIER,
IS IT POSSIBLE TO SEPARATE THE
KIND OF UNITY DAISY KHAN IS
DESCRIBING, THE NEED TO FOCUS ON
TERRORIST, THE TERRORIST THREAT
FROM THIS OTHER DEBATE THAT'S
GOING ON?
YOU DESCRIBED IT YOURSELF ABOUT
WHAT IS AND ISN'T PERMISSIBLE IN
THE MEDIA.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S POSSIBLE
TO SEPARATE THE TWO DEBATE AND
THE TWO CONVERSATIONS THESE DAYS
IN FRANCE AFTER THE CHARLIE
HEBDO ATTACK, IT'S NOT POSSIBLE
TO SEPARATE THE TWO DEBATES.
IT HAS TO BE SEPARATED BECAUSE
IF IT'S NOT, YOU'LL START HAVING
A CONVERSATION ABOUT DIFFERENT
VIEWS AND DIFFERENT IDEAS WITHIN
THE MUSLIM COMMUNITY, WHERE
WE'VE SEEN EYES CLOSED TO
TERRORIST ACTIVITIES OR
TERRORIST IDEAS.
SO THERE'S A THIN LINE, AND THAT
THIN LINE IS SEEN TODAY IN
FRANCE THAT THERE IS A RISK TO
PUT THE MUSLIM COMMUNITY ON THE
BACK SIDE OF THE DEBATE.
>> Woodruff: DAISY KHAN, I
WANT TO ASK YOU, A NUMBER OF
NEWS ORGANIZATIONS IN THE UNITED
STATES ARGUE THAT IT WAS
ACCEPTABLE TO SHOW THIS NEW
COVER OF THE MAGAZINE CHARLIE
HEBDO BECAUSE THEY SAY IT'S A
MORE ACCEPTABLE PORTRAIT OF THE
PROPHET MUHAMMAD.
IT SHOWS HIM WEEPING.
IT HAS A STATEMENT "ALL IS
FORGIVEN" OVER IT.
HOW DO YOU AS A MUSLIM ANSWER
THAT?
>> WELL, I PERSONALLY DON'T TAKE
OFFENSE TO ANYTHING THAT IS TO
PROVOKE OR PUSH PEOPLE OVER THE
EDGE.
HOWEVER, ALL THE CHARACTERS ARE
JUST CARICATURES.
THE COVER TODAY WAS THE CLOSEST
TO HIS CHARACTER.
I S WHY YOU DON'T
SEE THE KIND OF OUTRAGE FROM
ORDINARY MUSLIMS THAT MIGHT HAVE
SAID THIS IS OFFENSIVE.
I THINK THEY'RE SAYING FINALLY
WE'RE ACKNOWLEDGING WHO THE
PROPHET REALLY WAS.
HE WAS SEEN AS A MERCY TO HUMAN
KIND AND VERY FORGIVING OF HIS
ENEMIES AND TRIED TO TRANSFORM
HIS ENEMIES AND I THINK WHAT WE
NEED TO BE DISCUSSING RIGHT NOW
Y REALLY THENS OF THE
TEACHINGS OF THE PROPHET OR SOME
IDEOLOGY THAT NOBODY UNDERSTANDS
OR RECOGNIZES?
>> IT IS CERTAINLY A DISCUSSION
THAT CONTINUES.
WE THANK YOU BOTH, DAISY KHAN,
THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR MUSLIM
ADVANCEMENT, BERTRAND VANNIER
WITH RADIO FRANCE.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR HAVING
US.
>> Ifill: IN THE PAST SEVEN
DAYS, THE 2016 RACE FOR
PRESIDENT HAS MOVED FROM MOSTLY
THEORETICAL TO QUITE
SUBSTANTIAL.
IN A MINUTE, WE'LL ANALYZE THAT
CAMPAIGN LANDSCAPE.
BUT FIRST, A BRIEF LOOK AT THE
ACTION OF JUST THE PAST WEEK AND
WHERE THINGS STAND AT THE
MOMENT.
THE 2016 FIELD IS ALREADY
CROWDED, WITH NEARLY TWO DOZEN
POTENTIAL CANDIDATES ALL
JOCKEYING FOR POSITION.
BUT SET ASIDE THAT ENTIRE GROUP
FOR A MOMENT.
THIS PAST WEEK ABOUT HALF OF
THAT FIELD MADE SIGNIFICANT
MOVES.
WE START ALPHABETICALLY WITH
REPUBLICANS, FORMER FLORIDA
GOVERNOR JEB BUSH IS MEETING
WITH TOP G.O.P. DONORS AND HIS
LEADERSHIP PAC IS NOW UP AND
RUNNING.
IN NEW JERSEY, GOVERNOR CHRIS
CHRISTIE IS PLANNING TO SET UP
HIS OWN FUNDRAISING PAC AS EARLY
AS THIS MONTH, ACCORDING TO THE
"NEW YORK TIMES."
NEXT, ANOTHER FORMER GOVERNOR,
ARKANSAS MIKE HUCKABEE RELEASED
A BOOK LAST WEEK.
A NOW PREDICTABLE PART OF
RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT.
ANOTHER STATE LEADER, FORMER NEW
YORK GOVERNOR GEORGE TAKIPA TOLD
"THE BOSTON GLOBE" THIS WEEK HE
IS SERIOUSLY CONSIDERING A BID.
AND, KENTUCKY SENATOR RAND PAUL
ANNOUNCED YESTERDAY THAT HE HAS
HIRED A PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
MANAGER.
AND UPENDING THIS ENTIRE
PROCESS, MITT ROMNEY, THE 2012
NOMINEE, TOLD A GROUP OF DONORS
LAST WEEK THAT HE IS CONSIDERING
A THIRD RUN FOR THE OVAL OFFICE.
THEN THERE IS MARCO RUBIO, WHO
ALSO RELEASED A NEW BOOK JUST
YESTERDAY.
ROUNDING OUT THE FIELD, FORMER
SENATOR RICK SANTORUM BROUGHT
HIS FORMER CAMPAIGN STAFF
TOGETHER TO MEET IN WASHINGTON
THIS WEEK.
FOR DEMOCRATS, ALL EYES ARE ON
HILLARY CLINTON, WHO'S STARTING
TO PUT SOME KEY STAFF ON THE
PAYROLL, INCLUDING A POLLSTER
WHO WORKED FOR PRESIDENT OBAMA
AND JOHN PODESTA, WHO EXPECTED
TO LEAVE THE OBAMA WHITE HOUSE
THIS SPRING.
JOINING US NOW TO DISCUSS THIS
WHIRLWIND OF ACTIVITY ARE AMY
WALTER OF THE COOK POLITICAL
REPORT AND NIA MALIKA HENDERSON
OF "THE WASHINGTON POST."
WHY, ALL OF A SUDDEN, IS ALL OF
THIS HAPPENING?
IT FEELS LIKE IT'S KICKED IN.
>> IN 2007 BY THE TIME WE HIT
THE END OF FEBRUARY, JOHN
McCAIN, HILLARY CLINTON AND
BARACK OBAMA ALL ANNOUNCED.
BUT THIS IS A
MULTI-MILLION-DOLLAR OPERATION
THESE PEOPLE ARE PUTTING
TOGETHER.
YOU DON'T RAISE THAT KIND OF
MONEY OVERNIGHT, YOU DON'T PUT
THE STAFF TOGETHER IN A COUPLE
OF MONTHS.
THIS TAKES A GREAT DEAL OF TIME
AND EFFORT TO PUT TOGETHER THIS
KIND OF OPERATION.
>> Ifill: IS THIS DRIVEN BY
COMPETITION OR THE NEED TO RAISE
THE MONEY?
>> BOTH, REALLY.
THAT'S WHY A LOT OF THESE
CONVERSATIONS ARE GOING ON AMONG
DONORS.
MITT ROMNEY GOES TO DONORS AND
SAYS I WANT TO BE PRESIDENT.
MARCO RUBIO IS GETTING HIS GANG
TOGETHER IN FLORIDA NEXT WEEKEND
TO SEE WHAT HIS VIABILITY IS
GOING FOR.
IT REALLY IS ABOUT RAISING,
WHAT, A BILLION DOLLARS YOU'VE
GOT TO RAISE AND YOU'VE GOT TO
MAKE THE CASE TO THESE DONORS
THAT YOU ARE A WORTHY
INVESTMENT, SO THAT'S WHAT'S
GOING ON RIGHT NOW.
>> AND IT DOESN'T HURT TO TRY TO
SCARE OFF YOUR COMPETITORS, TOO.
>> RIGHT.
LET'S START WITH THE BIG
SURPRISE, MITT ROMNEY, THIRD
TIME'S THE CHARM, HE'S HOPING,
BUT -- REALLY?
>> WE TALK TO PEOPLE AROUND HIM
AND THEY SAY, REALLY?
HE SAID YES IN 2013 HE SAID NO,
NO, I'M NOT GOING TO DO THAT --
>> 2011.
AND 2014 COMES AROUND, HE'S A
SOUGHT AFTER SURROGATE ON THE
CAMPAIGN TRAIL.
CAMPAIGNED FOR A LOT OF
SUCCESSFUL 2014 CANDIDATES.
THERE WAS ADORATION FOR HIM, HE
SAW I WHAT IT WAS LIKE TO BE A
CANDIDATE.
AND NOW HE'S REASSESSING.
>> Ifill: JEB BUSH WAS
REASSESSING, TOO.
A FEW MONTHS AGO, HE WASN'T
INTERESTED.
HIS MOTHER SAID HE WASN'T
>> HE PRETTY MUCH HAD THAT SAME
INTERESTED.
LINE.
>> HE PRETTY MUCH HAD THAT SAME
HE WOULD HAVE TO CONSULT WITH
LINE.
HIS WIFE, HIS FAMILY WASN'T
HE WOULD HAVE TO CONSULT WITH
QUITE ON BOARD INCLUDING HIS
HIS WIFE, HIS FAMILY WASN'T
MOM.
QUITE ON BOARD INCLUDING HIS
AND THEN I THINK WHAT'S HAPPENED
MOM.
IS HE'S OBVIOUSLY HAD A CHANGE
AND THEN I THINK WHAT'S HAPPENED
OF HEART.
IS HE'S OBVIOUSLY HAD A CHANGE
MITT ROMNEY'S HAD A CHANGE OF
OF HEART.
HEART.
MITT ROMNEY'S HAD A CHANGE OF
THEY'RE LOOKING ACROSS AISLE,
HEART.
LOOKING AT HILLARY CLINTON AND
THEY'RE LOOKING ACROSS AISLE,
FIGURING MAYBE SHE ISN'T AS
LOOKING AT HILLARY CLINTON AND
STRONG AS HER POLL MEMBERS
FIGURING MAYBE SHE ISN'T AS
SUGGEST.
STRONG AS HER POLL MEMBERS
THEY'RE ALSO LOOKING AT THE
SUGGEST.
FIELD WHERE SOMEONE LIKE CHRIS
THEY'RE ALSO LOOKING AT THE
CHRISTIE DEFINITELY ISN'T
FIELD WHERE SOMEONE LIKE CHRIS
LOOKING AS STRONG AS A YEAR OR
CHRISTIE DEFINITELY ISN'T
TWO AGO AND LOOKING AT THIS
LOOKING AS STRONG AS A YEAR OR
LANDSCAPE IN POLITICS WHERE
TWO AGO AND LOOKING AT THIS
YOU'VE GOT TO MAKE A CREDIBLE
LANDSCAPE IN POLITICS WHERE
CASE THAT YOU CAN RAISE A
YOU'VE GOT TO MAKE A CREDIBLE
BILLION DOLLARS AND OVER THE
CASE THAT YOU CAN RAISE A
LAST YEARS, HO W.H.O.'S BEEN
BILLION DOLLARS AND OVER THE
ABLE TO DO THAT?
LAST YEARS, HO W.H.O.'S BEEN
THE BUSH FAMILY AND ROMNEY HAS
ABLE TO DO THAT?
BEEN ABLE TO DO THAT.
THE BUSH FAMILY AND ROMNEY HAS
GETTING BACK TO ROMNEY, ROMNEY,
BEEN ABLE TO DO THAT.
I THINK, LOOKS AT WHAT HAPPENED
GETTING BACK TO ROMNEY, ROMNEY,
IN 2012, THE MAP HE GOT
I THINK, LOOKS AT WHAT HAPPENED
CLOBBERED WITH THE ELEORALCT MAP
IN 2012, THE MAP HE GOT
BURKS IN TERMS OF VOTES, IT WAS
CLOBBERED WITH THE ELEORALCT MAP
5 MILLION.
BURKS IN TERMS OF VOTES, IT WAS
I THINK HE'S LOOKING AND SAYS,
5 MILLION.
OH, YOU SWITCH A FEW HERE AND
I THINK HE'S LOOKING AND SAYS,
THERE, MAYBE IT WOULD LOOK
OH, YOU SWITCH A FEW HERE AND
DIFFERENT.
THERE, MAYBE IT WOULD LOOK
>> THE FRESH NEW FACES.
DIFFERENT.
WE HAVE THE CLINTON, A BUSH, A
>> THE FRESH NEW FACES.
ROMNEY AND A SON T SANTORUM, A
WE HAVE THE CLINTON, A BUSH, A
HUCKABEE, A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO
ROMNEY AND A SON T SANTORUM, A
HAVE RUN BEFORE.
HUCKABEE, A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO
WHAT IS SUGGESTS, IF I MAY,
HAVE RUN BEFORE.
A REPUBLICAN GOVERNOR?
WHAT IS SUGGESTS, IF I MAY,
I'M NOT VERY NERVOUS NOW.
A REPUBLICAN GOVERNOR?
WHAT I WOULD BE LOOKING AT IS,
I'M NOT VERY NERVOUS NOW.
FINE, LET THESE GUYS GO OUT
WHAT I WOULD BE LOOKING AT IS,
THERE, PUT THEMSELVES OUT FRONT.
FINE, LET THESE GUYS GO OUT
I KNOW THE PUBLIC IS LOOKING FOR
THERE, PUT THEMSELVES OUT FRONT.
SOMETHING NEW.
I KNOW THE PUBLIC IS LOOKING FOR
WE TALKED ABOUT YOU TALK TO
SOMETHING NEW.
VOTERS, LISTEN TO FOCUS GROUPS,
WE TALKED ABOUT YOU TALK TO
THERE'S A HUNGER FOR SOMETHING
VOTERS, LISTEN TO FOCUS GROUPS,
NEW AND DIFFERENT.
THERE'S A HUNGER FOR SOMETHING
>> Ifill: SCOTT WALKER, BOBBY
NEW AND DIFFERENT.
JINDAL OR CHRIS CHRISTIE.
>> Ifill: SCOTT WALKER, BOBBY
>> PEOPLE WHO ARE NOT WELL-KNOWN
JINDAL OR CHRIS CHRISTIE.
NAMES, BUT WHO ARE
>> PEOPLE WHO ARE NOT WELL-KNOWN
WELL-POSITIONED IN THAT THEY'RE
NAMES, BUT WHO ARE
NOT A PART OF WASHINGTON,
WELL-POSITIONED IN THAT THEY'RE
THEY'RE NEW, FRESH FACES, THEY
NOT A PART OF WASHINGTON,
HAVE EXECUTIVE EXPERIENCE AND
THEY'RE NEW, FRESH FACES, THEY
THEY CAN POTENTIALLY PARLAY THAT
HAVE EXECUTIVE EXPERIENCE AND
INTO SUCCESS.
THEY CAN POTENTIALLY PARLAY THAT
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO
INTO SUCCESS.
SHOW THEY CAN RAISE THE MONEY
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO
QUITE YET BUT AS THEY GET A
SHOW THEY CAN RAISE THE MONEY
LITTLE MONEY THE DONOR'S FOLLOW.
QUITE YET BUT AS THEY GET A
>> Ifill: FOLKS ARE LOOKING AT
LITTLE MONEY THE DONOR'S FOLLOW.
HILLARY CLINTON ACROSS THE AISLE
>> Ifill: FOLKS ARE LOOKING AT
AND THINKING SHE'S BEATABLE,
HILLARY CLINTON ACROSS THE AISLE
RIGHT?
IS SHE?
WHO ELSE IS RISING ON THE
DEMOCRATIC SIDE TO GIVE HER A
RUN?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, FUNNY YOU
SHOULD ASK.
MAYBE JIM WEBB WHO RAN FOR
SENATOR IN VIRGINIA, 2006,
DIDN'T WIN BY MUCH AND DECIDED
NOT TO RUN AGAIN BECAUSE I THINK
HE FELT LIKE, A, HE DOESN'T
REALLY LIKE POLITICS AND MAYBE
HE WASN'T GOING TO WIN, HE'S NOW
TALKING ABOUT LOOKING AT WORKING
CLASS WHITE MEN AND THAT MAY BE
A WAY H HE MAY HAVE AN EDGE
AGAINST HILLARY CLINTON.
MAYBE SOMEBODY LIKE MARTIN
O'MALLEY, THE OUTGOING GOVERNOR
OF MARYLAND, SOMEBODY LIKE THAT.
BERNIE SANDERS WHO'S A
SOCIALIST.
BUT HARD TO SEE HOW THEY REALLY
CHALLENGE HILLARY.
IF YOU TALK TO FOLKS IN THE
HILLARY CAMPAIGN --
>> Ifill: ELIZABETH WARREN,
YOU DIDN'T MENTION HER.
>> SHE ISN'T MENTIONING HERSELF.
>> Ifill: SHE KEEPS SAYING NO.
DON'T KNOW IF SHE'S SAID NO
AS MANY AS MITT ROMNEY, BUT THE
QUESTION IS SHE A BOUTIQUE
LIBERAL OR A LIBERAL IN THE MOLD
OF BARACK OBAMA WHO COULD REALLY
RESHAPE THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY?
COULD SHE GET THE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN VOTERS.
>> Ifill: IF YOU LOOK AT THE
HILLARY WORLD, IT MATTERS WHO
YOU'RE HIRING AND WHO'S COMING
ON YOUR SIDE.
A LOT OF THESE FOLKS WE ASSUME
ARE LINING UP FOR ONE OF THE
CANDIDATES.
HOW MUCH SIGNIFICANCE IS IT SHE
HIRED PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
POLLSTER, HE HIRED HIS AD MAN
AND JOHN PODESTA IS GOING TO
WORK FOR HER.
>> Ifill: SHE WAS RELYING ON
THE BILL CLINTON GROUP TO GIVE
HER ADVICE, SHE NEEDED TO GET
OUTSIDE THAT BUBBLE AND SHE'S
DOING THAT BY HIRING THE OBAMA
TEAM.
HILLARY'S BIGGEST PROBLEM IS NOT
IN THE PRIMARY.
THERE'S NO EMPIRICAL EVIDENCE
THERE'S A HUNGER FOR A FRESH
FACE ON THE DEMOCRATIC SIDE LIKE
THE REPUBLICAN SIDE THAT I'VE
SEEN.
AT THE SAME TIME, HISTORY IS NOT
KIND TO A CANDIDATE TRYING TO BE
A THIRD TERM.
FOR DEMOCRATS, IF YOU DON'T
COUNT F.D.R., WHICH I DO NOT,
YOU HAVE TO GO BACK TO THE
1830s, IT IS A TOUGH, TOUGH
THING.
>> Ifill: I HATE SPORTS
ANALOGIES BUT SPRING TRAINING
SEEMS TO APPLY.
>> YES.
>> Ifill: AMY WALTER, NIA
MALIKA HENDERSON, THANK YOU
BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: THE ISSUE OF SEXUAL
ASSAULTS IN THE MILITARY HAS
BEEN FRONT AND CENTER IN RECENT
YEARS AND HAS SPARKED A HEATED
POLITICAL DEBATE.
TONIGHT, WE TAKE A LOOK WHAT
HAPPENS WHEN SOME SEXUAL
OFFENDERS ARE RELEASED FROM THE
ARMED SERVICES.
CORRESPONDENT MARK GREENBLATT OF
THE SCRIPPS NEWS SERVICE
INVESTIGATIVE UNIT HAS OUR
STORY.
>> Reporter: IN THE CALM OF
CENTRAL WISCONSIN'S ROLL HILLS,
BIG-CITY DANGERS SEEM AS IF
THEY'RE AN ENTIRE WORLD AWAY.
YET RIGHT HERE IN THE SMALL TOWN
OF READSBURG, POPULATION 10,000,
A SERIAL SEX OFFENDER FROM THE
MILITARY CHOSE HIS LATEST
VICTIM, AN UNSUSPECTING
CIVILIAN.
>> I CAN'T SLEEP AT NIGHT
KNOWING THAT MAN WAS IN OUR
HOUSE AND THAT I DIDN'T CATCH
IT, I DIDN'T KNOW IT, I DIDN'T
REALIZE IT, I DIDN'T SUSPECT
ANYTHING.
>> Reporter: THIS WISCONSIN
MOTH WHO ARE ASKED US NOT TO USE
HER NAME TO PROTECT HER FAMILY
IS TALKING ABOUT MA VIEW S.
CARR -- MATTHEW S. CARR WHO MET
HER DAUGHTER ON THE INTERNET IN
2010 CLAIMING HE WAS A
GYNECOLOGIST IN THE AIR FORCE
AWAITING LEAVING TO AFGHANISTAN.
THE MOVING LETTER EXPLAINED HER
DAUGHTER'S FAST-MOVING
RELATIONSHIP.
>> SHE SHARED HE PLANNED ON
MOVING TO WISCONSIN AND THEY
WERE GOING TO GET ENGAGED.
I STILL WANTED TO CHECK HIM OUT
SO I WENT ONLINE AND DID A
SEARCH.
>> Reporter: SHE LOOKED FOR
CRIMES AND ALSO ON REGISTRIES
FOR SEX OFFENDERS.
WHAT DID YOU FIND?
>> NOING THAT ALL.
>> Reporter: BUT IT TURNS OUT
CARR WAS CONCEALING A SECRET.
THE AIR FORCE HAD KICKED HIM OUT
FOLLOWING A COURT MARTIAL
CONVICTION IN 2003 FOR INDECENT
ASSAULT OF SEVEN WOMEN.
IT SENTENCED HIM TO SEVEN YEARS
IN PRISON FOR CONNING ONE WOMAN
AFTER THE NEXT INTO FAKE
GYNECOLOGY EXAMS.
BUT IT ALL CAME BACK UP WHEN
ANOTHER SUSPICIOUS FAMILY MEMBER
DUG UP CARR'S MILITARY RECORD
AND GAVE IT TO THE MOTHER.
>> I READ IT, COULD NOT BEGIN TO
BELIEVE IT OR COMPREHEND IT AT
FIRST.
MY BLOOD TURNED ABSOLUTELY COLD.
I STARTED TO SHAKE AND SAID,
SHE'S IN DANGER RIGHT NOW, SO
THAT'S WHEN WE DECIDED TO ACT,
IMMEDIATELY.
>> Reporter: WHAT DID YOU DO?
WE JUMPED IN OUR VEHICLE AND
WE HEADED TOWARDS REEDSBURG
WHICH SUS A GOOD 45 MINUTES TO
AN HOUR AWAY.
>> Reporter: BUT BY THEN
MATTHEW CARR HAD ALREADY
SEXUALLY ASSAULTED HER DAUGHTER.
HAD HE BEEN REGISTERED AS A SEX
OFFENDER, YOU WOULD HAVE FOUND
THAT OUT BEFORE HE EVER MOVED
OUT HERE.
>> YES.
IT DIDN'T HAVE TO HAPPEN THE WAY
IT DID.
>> Reporter: EVENTUALLY,
MATTHEW CARR WENT TO PRISON IN
WISCONSIN, BUT IT TURNS OUT
THERE ARE HORNS OF CONVICTED
MILITARY SEXUAL OFFENDERS WHOSE
NAMES AND OFFENSES DON'T APPEAR
ON ANY PUBLIC REGISTRY ONCE THEY
LEAVE THE SERVICE.
A NINE-MONTH INVESTIGATION BY
SCRIPPS NEWS DISCOVERED AT LEAST
242 OFFENDERS WHO HAVE GONE
UNDER THE RADAR DISAPPEARING
INTO NEIGHBORHOODS ADROPS
COUNTRY AND IN SOME -- ACROSS
THE COUNTRY AND IN SOME CASES
HAVE GONE ON TO PREY AGAIN AND
AGAIN.
THE FEDERAL AWAM WALSH ACT
REQUIRES CIVILIAN SEX OFFENDERS
TO REGISTER BEFORE THEY'RE
RELEASED FROM PRISON, BUT THE
MILITARY LACKS THE AUTHORITY TO
DO THAT SO INSTEAD THE
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TURNS TO
THE HONOR SYSTEM, TRUSTING THE
VERY SEX CRIMINALS IT CONVICTS
TO REGISTER THEMSELVES AFTER
THEY LEAVE THE MILITARY BRIG.
OF MORE THAN 1300 CASES
REVIEWED, WE FOUNDNE O IN FIVE
RAPISTS, CHILD MOLESTERS AND
SEXUAL OFFENDERS CONVICTED IN
THE MILITARY DO NOT APPEAR ON
ANY PUBLIC REGISTRY AND THERE
ARE OTHER PROBLEMS, WHEN MATT
CARR SHOWED UP IN NEW YORK,
FEDERAL PROBATION OFFICIALS SAY
MISTAKEN PAPERWORK FROM THE
MILITARY MADE IT APPEAR AS IF HE
WAS CONVICTED OF A LESSER
ASSAULT, JUST A MISDEMEANOR THAT
IS NOT A SEX OFFENSE THERE.
NEW YORK STATE SAID HE DIDN'T
HAVE TO REGISTER.
THAT ALLOWED CARR TO MOVE TO
WISCONSIN WHERE HE NEVER CHECKED
IN WITH POLICE.
>> HE VICTIMIZED PEOPLE OUTSIDE
THE CIVILIAN WORLD WHERE WE
COULD HAVE STOPPED IT FROM
HAPPENING.
>> Reporter: THEN BASIL KING
KINGSBURY CONVICTED OF RAPE AND
FORCIBLE SODOMY GOT OUT OF FORT
LEVEN WORTH IN 2005 AND HEADED
TO MISSISSIPPI.
HE ENDED UP IN GEORGIA INSTEAD
WHERE HE SLIPPED THROUGH THE
SYSTEM'S CRACKS.
HAVE YOU FOUND BASIL KINGSBURY
YET?
>> NOT YET.
>> Reporter: YOU'RE LOOKING.
OH, YEAH, WE'RE LOOKING.
>> Reporter: VERNON KEANNAN IS
THE DIRECTOR OF THE GEORGIA BEAU
BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION WHICH
HAD KINGSBURY IN ITS SIGHTS NINE
YEARS AGO BUT INVESTIGATORS HERE
MISTAKENLY THOUGHT HIS MILITARY
CONVICTION WAS OVERTURNED.
THEY WROTE FOR CLARIFICIONAT TO
THE SEX OFFENDER UNIT AT THE
MILITARY PRISON IN FORT
LEVENWORTH AND EVEN TO THE
U.S. ARMY RECORDS CENTER IN
VIRGINIA, REQUESTING A WRITTEN
REPLY IF KINGSBURY DID IN FACT
HA V TO REGISTER.
BUT KEANNAN SAID --
>> WE HAVE NO RECORD OF HIM
RESPONDING.
>> Reporter: SO GEORGIA RULED
HE DID NOT HAVE TO REGISTER,
ALLOWING KINGSBURY TO MOVE
AROUND FREELY EVER SINCE.
WE TRACKED HIM TO THIS SMALL
TOWN IN YORK COUNTY,
SOUTH CAROLINA.
AUTHORITIES HAD NO IDEA THEY HAD
A CONVICTED SEX OFFENDER LIVING
IN THEIR COMMUNITY.
>> IN THE STATE OF
SOUTH CAROLINA, IF YOU MOVE
HERE, AND YOU'RE A CONVICTED SEX
OFFENDER, YOU HAVE TO COME TO
THE LOCAL SHERIFF'S OFFICE AND
REGISTER AS A SEX OFFENDER.
>> Reporter: INCREDIBLY THE
YORK COUNTY SHERIFF'S OFFICE
ARRESTED KINGSBURY IN JUNE ON A
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE INCIDENT AT
THIS APARTMENT COMPLEX BUT LOCAL
OFFICIALS NEVER KNEW ABOUT THE
ARMY CONVICTIONS, HIS
ELEVEN-YEAR SENTENCE OR THAT HE
NEEDED TO REGISTER.
LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS HAVE
NO IDEA WHERE HE IS TODAY AND
THEY'RE WORRIED.
>> I THINK ANYTIME WE HAVE A SEX
OFFENDER WHO IS NOT REGISTERED
AS REQUIRED BY LAW, THAT THAT IS
A MATTER OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
>> AND WHEN THERE ARE HUNDREDS
THAT ARE UNREGISTERED --
>> AT ITHS A DISASTER WAITING TO
HAPPEN.
>> Reporter: THE DEPARTMENT
OF DEFENSE'S OWN INSPECTOR
GENERAL CONCLUDED THIS AUGUST
THAT THE MILITARY'S INABILITY TO
REGISTER ITS OWN PRISONERS WHILE
STILL BEHIND BARS ENABLES
OFFENDERS TO EVADE REGISTRATION
LATER.
THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
DECLINED REPEATED ON-CAMERA
INTERVIEW REQUESTS, SO AT A
RECENT PENTAGON PRESS BRIEFING
ABOUT SEXUAL ASSAULT IN THE
MILITARY, WE ASKED ABOUT THE
HUNDREDS OF COICTENVD SEXUAL
OFFENDERS WHO LEAVE THE MILITARY
AND GO UNDER THE RADAR.
>> THIS IS SOMETHING THAT HAS
NOT COME TO YOUR ATTENTION YET?
>> NO.
I KNEW -- I HAVE SEEN AN EXTRACT
OF WHAT YOU ARE DESCRIBING BUT I
WILL TELL YOU THAT IS NOT ONE
THAT I AM WELL-VERSED IN.
>> Reporter: MAJOR GENERAL
JEFFERY SNOW LEADS THE
MILITARY'S OFFICE IN CHARGE OF
PREVENTING AND RESPONDING TO
SEXUAL ASSAULTS INSIDE THE
MILITARY.
SHOULD BE THERE AN ASPECT OF
PREVENTION AND RESPONSE OF
FURTHER SEXUAL ASSAULTS IN THE
CIVILIAN COMMUNITY AS WELL THAT
COMES UNDER YOUR LEADERSHIP?
>> IN LIGHT OF YOUR QUESTION,
WE'LL OBVIOUSLY TAKE A LOOK AT
THAT, SO THANK YOU.
>> THIS HAS TO BE FIXED.
THIS IS A GAPING LOOPHOLE.
>> Reporter: CONGRESSWOMAN
JACKIE SPEAR IS A CALIFORNIA
DEMOCRAT WHO SERVICE ON THE
HOUSE ARMS SERVICES COMMITTEE.
>> IT'S A DAMNATION OF THE
MILITARY JUSTICE SYSTEM AND IT'S
A DAMNATION OF THE MILITARY AND
THEIR RESPONSIBILITY IN
PROTECTING CIVIL SOCIETY
BECAUSE, IN FACT, THEY ARE NOT.
>> Reporter: FOUR YEARS AGO,
SPEAR PUSHED LEGISLATION THAT
WOULD HAVE REQUIRED A MILITARY
DATABASE TRACKING SEXUAL
ASSAULTS.
>> TODAY I INTRODUCE H.R.3435,
WITH 44 CO-SPONSORS.
>> Reporter: HER OFFICE TOLD
US SHE BACKED OFF WHEN THE
MILITARY TOLD THEM THIS WAS NOT
AN ISSUE, CLAIMING THEY WERE
VIGILANT ABOUT ENSURING
OFFENDERS WERE BEING PUT ON
REGISTERS UPON RELEASE.
WHAT'S YOUR TAKE NOW?
>> I'M SICK TO MY STOMACH.
>> Reporter: WHAT WOULD YOUR
MESSAGE DIRECTOR BE TO THE
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE IF THEY
DON'T EMBRACE CHANGE ON THIS
ISSUE?
>> I CAN'T IMAGINE THEY'RE NOT
GOING TO EMBRACE CHANGE.
THIS IS TOO SERIOUS OF A MATTER.
>> Reporter: SEPARATELY A
DoD OFFICIAL E-MAILED US TO
SAY THAT IF CONGRESS REQUIRED
IT, THE DoD COULD REGISTER AN
OFFENDER OFFICIALLY BUT THE ONUS
WOULD REMAIN ON OFFENDERS TO
REREGISTER AS THEY MOVE FROM
STATE TO STATE AND HE CONCLUDED
IT WOULD HAVE NO PRACTICAL
EFFECT OBSERV ON THE PROBLEM, BE
MOTHER FROM WISCONSIN IS NOT CON
SWRINSED.
I WOULD ASK HOW HE WOULD FEEL IF
THIS HAPPENED TO HIS DAUGHTER.
>> Reporter: MARK GREENBLATT,
PBS "NewsHour" IN WASHINGTON.
>> Ifill: SCRIPPS REPORTER MARK
GREENBLATT FOLLWED UP WITH THE
PENTAGON TO SEE IF THEY HAD ANY
FURTHER COMMENT SINCE MAJOR
GENERAL SNOW'S NEWS CONFERENCE.
A SPOKESMAN RESPONDED VIA EMAIL
SAYING:
"THE DEPARTMENT TAKES THIS ISSUE
VERY SERIOUSLY AND THAT IS WHY
WE HAVE BEEN, AND REMAIN IN THE
PROCESS OF DEVELOPING
DEPARTMENT-WIDE POLICY AND A
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE UNITED
STATES MARSHALS SERVICE, WHICH
WILL ENSURE THAT CONVICTED SEX-
OFFENDERS FULLY COMPLY WITH THE
SEX OFFENDER REGISTRATION AND
NOTIFICATION ACT, AS THE LAW
INTENDED."
HE ADDED THAT THPOLIE CY AND
PARTNERSHIP IS EXPECTED TO BE
FINALIZED IN EARLY SPRING.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS
BEEN INCREASINGLY ACTIVE ABOUT
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AND
CLIMATE CHANGE.
TODAY, THROUGH THE POWER OF
EXECUTIVE ACTION ONCE AGAIN, HIS
ADMINISTRATION ANNOUNCED A PLAN
TO CUT DOWN ON METHANE EMISSIONS
CREATEBY ND EW GAS DRILLING AND
OIL PRODUCTION.
THE GOAL: REDUCE THOSE EMISSIONS
BY AT LEAST 40% BY THE YEAR 2025
FROM THE LEVELS THE U.S. REACHED
IN 2012.
IT COMES AMID THE BIG RISE OF
FRACKING IN AMERICA.
FOR A CLOSER LOOK AT THE
CONCERNS AROUND METHANE ND THE
POTENTIAL IMPACT, WE CHECK IN
WITH CORAL DAVENPORT OF THE NEW
YORK TIMES.
AND, MICHAEL OPPENHEIMER, A
CLIMATE SCIENTIST AT PRINCETON
UNIVERSITY AND A MEMBER OF UN
PANELS THAT HAVE ISSUED REPORTS
ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH BACK TO THE
PROGRAM.
CORAL DAVENPORT, TO YOU, FIRST,
WHY IS THE PRESIDENT DOING THIS
NOW?
>> THE PRESIDENT REALLY WANTS TO
USE THESE LAST TWO YEARS OF HIS
TERM TO BUILD A LEGACY ON
CLIMATE CHANGE.
HE KNOWS THAT HE CAN'T MOVE
ANYTHING THROUGH CONGRESS.
HE TRIED THAT IN HIS FIRST TERM
AND IT FAILED.
NOW WITH THE NEW REPUBLICAN
CONGRESS, ANY KIND OF
LEGISLATION IS D.O.A., SO HE'S
TURNED TO THE POWER OF THE CLEAN
AIR ACT, AN EXISTING LAW UNDER
ICLATIONS
TO GOVERN POLLUTION FROM
DIFFERENT SECTORS OF THE
ECONOMY.
WE'VE SEEN HIM MOVE FORWARD ON
REGULATIONS ON EMISSIONS FROM
VEHICLES AND POWER PLANTS, SO
THIS IS IS ANOTHER PIECE TO HAVE
THE ECONOMY, HE'S GOING TO
SECTOR BY SECTOR TO REIN IN
EMISSIONS WHEREVER THEY ARE.
SO THESE METHANE EMISSIONS FROM
OIL AND GAS WELLS, THE OIL AND
GAS SECTOR ARE A BIG PIECE OF
THE NATION'S GREENHOUSE GAS
POLLUTION.
>> Woodruff: SO MICHAEL
OPPENHEIMER, HELP US UNDERSTAND
WHY METHANE IS SUCH A CONCERN.
WE HEAR A LOT ABOUT CARBON
DIOXIDE.
WHAT ABOUT METHANE?
>> METHANE IS RIGHT BLIND CARBON
DIOXIDE AS THE SECOND MOST
IMPORTANT GLOBAL WARMING GAS, IN
FACT CONTRIBUTES MORE THAN 20%
OF THE CURRENT WARMING EFFECT.
THE OTHER THING ABOUT METHANE
THAT YOU HAVE TO UNDERSTAND IS,
PER TON EMITTED, IT'S AT LEAST
28 TIMES MORE POTENT THAN CARBON
DIOXIDE, JUST THAT WE EMATE A
LOT MORE CARBON DIOXIDE SO IT'S
IMPORTANT TO REDUCE THE ME THAT
BE EMISSIONS TO SOLVE THE
PROBLEM.
FINALLY, METHANE RESPONSE MORE
QUICKLY TO REDUCTIONS IN
EMISSIONS THAN CARBON DIOXIDE.
SO IF YOU WANT TO AFFECT THE
RATE OF WARMING OVER THE NEXT
FEW DECADES YOU NEED TO
COMPLEMENT THE DEEP CUTS IN
CARBON DIOXIDE WE NEED TO SOLVE
THE PROBLEM WITH PARALLEL CUTS
IN METHANE TO GIVE HUMAN BEINGS
A GREATER OPPORTUNITY TO ADAPT
TO CLIMATE CHANGE BY SLOWING THE
RATE.
>> Woodruff: PROFESSOR
OPPENHEIMER, FOLLOWING UP, WE
MENTIONED FRACKING.
THE FRACKING INHERENTLY
PRODUCING METHANE AND THAT'S A
BIG PART OF THIS, OR IS IT THE
FACT THAT THERE'S JUST MORE
FRACKING THAN THERE USED TO BE
SO THE AMOUNT OF METHANE IS
INCREASING?
HELP US GET THAT STRAIGHT.
>> THE PROCESS OF EXTRACTING,
DELIVERING AND USING GAS LEAKS
END TO END AND PART OF THAT IS
THE LEAKING AT THE WELLHEAD AND
FRACKING IS CERTAINLY AN
IMPORTANT PART OF THAT PROBLEM.
WE CERTAINLY DON'T HAVE GOOD
NUMBERS FOR THE WHOLE STREAM BUT
WE CAN TELL YOU THAT FROM THE
EXTRACTION OF THE GAS TO THE
PUMPING OF IT TO PUTTING IT IN
THE TRANSMISSION LINES TO
TRANSMITTING IT TO CITIES, TO
DISTRIBUTING IT, AND THEN RIGHT
TO THE UTILITY, TO THE
APPLIANCES IN YOUR HOME, THE
SYSTEM LEAKS, AND GETTING THOSE
LEAKS FIXED, NOT IN ANY ONE
SPOT, BUT THROUGH THE WHOLE
SYSTEM, INCLUDING THE WELLHEADS
OF THE FRACKING WELLS IS VERY
IMPORTANT AND THAT'S WHAT THIS
PROPOSAL AIMS TO DO.
>> WELL, DAVENPORT, HOW IS THE
OIL AND GAS INDUSTRY REACTING TO
THIS?
>> THE OIL AND GAS INDUSTRY
HATES NEW REGULATIONS.
THEY HAVE BEEN INSISTING ALL
ALONG THEY DON'T NEED THE NEW
REGULATIONS.
ONE OF THEIR ARGUMENTS IS
METHANE IS A COMPONENT OF
NATURAL GAS, AND, THUS, IS PART
OF WHAT OIL AND GAS PRODUCERS
ARE PULLING OUT OF THE GROUND
AND TAKING TO MARKET AND
SELLING.
OIL AND GAS PRODUCERS SAY IT'S
NOT A FINANCIAL INTESTER TO KEEP
THE LEAKS FROM HAPPENING.
THE MORE METHANE LEAKS, THE MORE
WE LOSE MONEY, YOU DON'T NEED TO
REGULATE US, WE'RE GOING TO
SELF-REGULATE ANYWAY.
THAT'S BEEN THE INDUSTRY'S
ARGUMENT.
THE PROBLEM WITH THAT IS THERE
ARE A LOT OF LEAKS, AS PROFESSOR
OPPENHEIMER SAID, THERE'S A
STUDY IN SCIENCE LAST YEAR THAT
FOUND THAT METHANE IS LEAKING
FROM OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION AND
TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS AT RATES
50% HIGHER THAN PREVIOUSLY
THOUGHT.
SO THEY DON'T LIKE IT, BUT THEY
DO ALSO HAVE THE TECHNOLOGY TO
COMPLY.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMUNITY?
WHAT ARE THEY SAYING, PLEASED?
>> THE ENVIRONMENTAL COMMUNITY
IS PARTIALLY PLEASED AND
PARTIALLY DISPLEASED.
THESE REGULATIONS ARE NEVER
FULLY STRONG ENOUGHONS ADDRESS R
FUTURE OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION
FACILITIES.
THEY ACTUALLY DON'T DIRECTLY
ADDRESS EXISTING OIL AND GAS
LISTS SAY, WELL,
THIS IS GREAT, NEW OIL AND GAS
PRODUCTION WILL HAVE TO BE BUILT
WITH REGULATIONS TO PREVENT
LEAKS.
THE REGULATIONS WILL SAY -- THE
ADMINISTRATION WILL WORK WITH
THE INDUSTRY ON VOLUNTARY PLANS
FOR EXISTING FACILITIES.
ENVIRONMENTALISTS SAY THAT'S NOT
GOOD ENOUGH.
THEY'RE GOING TO PUSH FOR THE
ADMINISTRATION TO MOVE FORWARD
LATER ON REGULATION ON EXISTING
FACILITIES BUT WE MAY NOT SEE
THAT FOR SEVERAL YEARS.
>> Woodruff: AND MICHAEL
OPPENHEIMER, WE KNOW THE
PRESIDENT HAS SIGNED ON, HAS
COMMITTED TO SOME INTERNATIONAL
AGREEMENTS ON IMPROVING THE
ENVIRONMENT.
HOW WILL THIS SET OF -- THIS
PARTICULAR SET OF REGULATIONS ON
METHANE PLAY INTO THAT?
HOW MUCH OF A DIFFERENCE WILL IT
MAKE?
>> WE HAVE TO MAKE A FULL COURT
PRESS IF WE'RE GOING TO GET
AHEAD OF GLOBAL WARMING AND
AVOID THE DANGER ZONE WHICH
STARTS ABOVE A WARMING OF
SOMEWHERE AROUND THREE AND A
HALF OR FOUR DEGREES FAHRENHEIT
WARMING.
WE'RE NEVER GOING TO MAKE THAT
UNLESS WE HAVE DEEP CUTS IN
CARBON DIOXIDE AND MAKE
COLLATERAL CUTS IN THE OTHER
GREENHOUSE GASES, AND THIS HAS
TO START NOW OR ELSE WE'LL
SIMPLY NEVER GET THERE.
I JUST WANT TO ADD TO ONE OF OF
CORAL'S POINTS IS THE COST OF
THESE MEASURES IS MODEST.
IT'S ESTIMATED AT 1 PENNY PER
1,000 CUBIC FEET.
SO FOR INSTANCE FOR A TYPICAL
HOME IN NEW YORK DURING THE
WINTER, IT MIGHT ADD DIMES TO
THE HEATING BILL OF A TYPICAL
USER.
YOU'RE NOT REALLY GOING TO
NOTICE THIS.
>> Woodruff: MICHAEL
OPPENHEIMER, CORAL DAVENPORT, WE
THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANKS SO MUCH.
>> Ifill: TWO ROCK CLIMBERS MADE
HISTORY TODAY, IN CALIFORNIA'S
YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK,
COMPLETING WHAT'S BEING CALLED
THE HARDEST CLIMB IN THE WORLD.
30-YEAR-OLD KEVIN JORGESON AND
36-YEAR-OLD TOMMY CALDWELL
BECAME THE FIRST TO FREE-CLIMB E
TO REACH THE SUMMIT OF EL
CAPITAN.
THE TWO STARTED THEIR JOURNEY ON
DECEMBER 27TH, AND CONTINUED
THEIR HALF-MILE TREK UP THE DAWN
WALL ROUTE, TO THEEAK. P
THEY MARKED THEIR PROGRESS
THROUGH DIFFERENT PITCHES OR
SECTIONS OF THE ROUTE.
THEY USED NO CLIMBING AIDS,
OTHER THAN SAFETY ROPES TO CATCH
THEIR FALLS.
HERE'S KEVIN JORGESON ON THE
DAWN WALL TALKING ABOUT THE
WEATHER CONDITIONS THEY FACED
EARLIER IN THEIR TREK.
>> WE LOOKED AT THE FORECAST AND
SAW THAT THERE'S THIS CRAZY,
ARCTIC WIND STORM HAPPENING
TODAY.
IT'S GETTING PRETTY ROWDY!
THE POOR LEDGE, DESPITE BEING
LATCHED DOWN IS GETTING TOSSED
AROUND LIKE A RAG DOLL.
>> Ifill: FOR MORE ON THIS
JOURNEY, I SPOKE EARLIER WITH
CHRIS WEIDNER, A FREELANCE
WRITER FOR NUMEROUS PUBLICATIONS
AND A CLIMBER HIMSELF.
CHRIS, I HAVE TO START BY ASKING
YOU THIS, WHY ARE THEY DOING
THIS?
JUST BECAUSE IT'S THERE?
>> WELL, THAT'S CERTAINLY A
COMMON MISCONCEPTION.
IT SURELY IS THERE.
MANY PEOPLE, THOUGH, MANY
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE HAVE CLIMBED
EL CAPITAN BEFORE.
THEY'RE DOING THIS PARTICULAR
ROUTE IN THE STYLE THEY'RE DOING
IT WHICH IS FREE CLIMBING
BECAUSE, AS YOU SAID EARLIER, IT
IS THE HARDEST BIG WALL FREE
CLIMB IN THE WORLD, HANDS DOWN.
>> Ifill: EXPLAIN HOW THIS IS
DIFFERENT FROM OTHER PEOPLE.
OTHER PEOPLE HAVE SCALED THIS
PARTICULAR ROCK BEFORE, BUT WHY
IS THIS CLIMB DIFFERENT?
THE KEY TO UNDERSTANDING WHY
THIS IS DIFFERENT IS ALL ABOUT
THE FREE CLIMBING ASPECT AND
THAT IS SIMPLY A CHOSE UP,
SELF-IMPOSED RULE, BASICALLY,
THAT MAKES IT MUCH MORE
CHALLENGES BECAUSE, FRANKLY, FOR
CLIMBERS AS GOOD AS CALDWELL AND
GORINGSON, JUST STARTING AT THE
BOTTOM OF THE DON WALL AND GOING
TO THE TOP IS UNCHALLENGING.
SO THEY ARE CLIMBING EL CAP AS
YOU WOULD IMAGINE TWO CLIMBERS
CLIMB.
THEY'RE GOING UP THE ROCK,
PLACING GEAR, TIED INTO ROPES.
IF THEY FALL OFF, THEY WILL BE
JUST FINE, THEY'RE CAUGHT.
WHAT PEOPLE DON'T UNDERSTAND
ABOUT THIS CLIMB IS THE FREE
ASPECT WHICH MEANS -- WELL,
WHICH MEANS WHAT I JUST
EXPLAINED BUT BASICALLY NOT FREE
CLIMBING IS THE HARD PART TO
UNDERSTAND.
>> Ifill: LET ME HELP YOU.
I'VE HEARD THEY HAVE CLIMBED AND
THEIR FINGERS ARE BLEEDING AND
LITERALLY THEY ARE NOT USING ANY
EQUIPMENT TO ATTACH THEMSELVES
TO THE ROCK FACE.
>> THAT'S NOT EXACTLY TRUE.
YES, THEIR FINGERS ARE BLEEDING.
THEY ARE USING EQUIPMENT TO
ATTACH THEMSELVES TO THE ROCK,
FOR EXAMPLE, AT THE TOP OF EACH
PITCH.
OVER, WHAT THEY'RE NOT DOING IS
PLACING GEAR AND GRABBING IT TO
MAKEUP WARD PROGRESS AT A HARD
SPOT.
THEY'RE NOT STEPPING ON A BOLT,
FOR EXAMPLE, THEY'RE NOT RESTING
ON THE ROPE.
ALL OF THOSE THINGS ARE
CONSIDEREDID  ACLIMBING.
THEY'RE NOT DOING THAT, THEY'RE
JUST FREE CLIMBING.
>> Ifill: HOW LONG HAVE THEY
BEEN DOING THIS AND IN WHAT KIND
OF SHAPE ARE THEY IN AT THIS
POINT?
>> GOSH, THEY'VE SPECIFICALLY
WORKED ON THE DON WALL FOR SEVEN
YEARS.
FOR TOMMY, IT'S BEEN HIS MAIN
OBJECTIVE IN THOSE SEVEN YEARS
AND FOR KEVIN, IT'S BEEN HIS
OBJECTIVE FOR AT LEAST FIVE OF
THOSE YEARS, SO THEY'RE
ABSOLUTELY IN THE FITTEST SHAPE
OF THEIR LIVES FOR THIS TYPE OF
CLIMB.
>> Ifill: HOW DO YOU PREPARE
FOR SOMETHING LIKE THIS?
>> MAN, A LOT OF PREPARING FOR
THIS SPECIFIC CLIMB INITIALLY,
ANYWAY, THE FIRST COUPLE OF
YEARS WAS JUST EXPLORING THE
FACE, EXPLORING THE DON WALL.
ON REPEL, TOMMY WOULD SWING
AROUND AND TRY TO FIND THE PATH
OF RESISTANCE TO THIS PRETTY
SMOOTH SHIELD OF ROCK.
TO START, THE PREPARATION WAS
JUST FINDING THE BEST WAY.
THEN IT'S DOWN TO PURE TRAINING.
I KNOW TOMMY AND KEVIN BOTH HAVE
BEEN TRAINING HARDER THAN
BEFORE, ESPECIALLY THIS YEAR.
>> Ifill: BASIC QUESTION, HOW
DO YOU SLEEP ON A SHEER ROCK
FACE IN.
>> WELL, THEY'VE HAD THESE TWO
PORTAL EDGES SET UP THAT YOU'VE
PROBABLY SEEN PHOTOGRAPHS OF IN
THE MIDDLE OF A WALL.
THAT'S KIND OF LIKE THEIR BASE
CAMP.
IT'S ACTUALLY MORE COMFORTABLE
THAN IT MIGHT LOOK.
IT'S NICE AND FLAT.
THEY HAVE HANGING STOVES.
THEY HAVE THEIR COMFY SLEEPING
BAGS AND PILLOWS.
>> Ifill: THAT'S COMFORTABLE
BY A CLIMBER'S POINT OF VIEW.
>> YEAH.
>> Ifill: BUT HOW MUCH IS THIS
DIFFICULT AND HOW MUCH OF THIS
IS DANGEROUS?
>> OKAY, THAT'S A GREAT QUESTION
BECAUSE I THINK THE PUBLIC TENDS
TO MISUNDERSTAND THAT.
IT'S REALLY NOT VERY DANGEROUS.
IN FACT, IT'S PROBABLY NOT MORE
DANGEROUS THAN ANY OTHER CLIMB
OF EL CAPITAN.
ONE WAY TO LOOK AT THAT IS IT'S
PROBABLY MORE DANGEROUS THAN TO
JUST DRIVE TO YOSEMITE FROM
WHERE TOM WHERE IS IN COLORADO
THAN TO CLIMB EL CAP.
WHAT THEY'RE DOING IS NOT MORE
DANGEROUS, IT'S JSTU WAY, WAY
MORE DIFFICULT.
>> CHRIS, THANKS FOR HELPING US
OUT.
>> YES, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
FRENCH AUTHORITIES ARRESTED 54
PEOPLE IN A CRACKDOWN ON HATE
SPEECH AFTER LAST WEEK'S TERROR
ATTACKS.
AND "CHARLIE HEBDO" PUBLISHED A
NEW ISSUE WITH A CARTOON OF
MUHAMMAD ONE WEEK AFTER ISLAMIST
GUNMEN KILLED 12 PEOPLE AT THE
SATIRICAL NEWSPAPER.
AND WALL STREET DROPPED AGAIN ON
CONCERNS ABOUT GLOBAL GROWTH AN.
THE DOW INDUSTRIALS FELL NEARLY
190 POINTS.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE, CARLA KEIRNS WAS IN
LABOR FOR TWO DAYS WHEN DOCTORS
SUGGESTED SHE HAVE A C-SECTION
INSTEAD OF DELIVERING NATURALLY,
WHICH WAS HER WISH.
AFTER MANY CONSULTATIONS AND
SEVERAL HOURS, SHE PREVAILED.
BUT KEIRNS IS ALSO A TRAINED
PHYSICIAN.
WHAT CAN NON-EXPERTS DO TO
EXERCISE MORE CONTROL OVER THEIR
OWN BABY DELIVERIES?
WE TALKED TO DOCTOR KEIRNS, AND
YOU CAN READ THAT Q-AND-A ON OUR
HOME PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, WE GO BEHIND THE
WHEEL OF A DRIVER-LESS CAR.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING, FOR ALL
OF US HERE AT THE PBS NEWSHOUR,
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.